At that time, when you registered, you would go to a
specific department and you could ask for a
certain section if you knew who the instructor
was. And I followed his advice on numerous
occasions. Who were some of those, for you, some of
those special first-year teachers? Oh, Dr. S.R.
Gammon.
head of the history department, and I majored in
history, but I recall, and he said, he told me, he
says, I had a B in 105,
and he said, if you'll take this exam and make an A,
you'll get an A in the course. And so I took him up on
that. describe dr gammon as a lecturer he was great
he came to texas a m to teach history as i remember as
was told to me in the southern tradition and he had
been a graduate of washington and lee and he he was a
fine teacher and he was a little tough sometimes
but if you responded by, you could make a good
grade. I recall I went through with him through
my senior year, and one letter quiz my senior year,
and I believe it was U.S. Diplomatic History some
like that i i didn't do very well particular quiz
and he wrote me a little bit this is not of your
quality and i i i took it part but he was a he was very
good teach did he have a nickname i'm not heard one
for him You have not? No. Oyster Joe. Oh, that's
right. That's right. Yes, yes. Because of his
habit of having peanuts in his mouth and clearing
his throat and rolling them around. That's right.
That's a special one. Now, his father, I've
learned, was a great Presbyterian leader in
Kentucky and Virginia, so that he came from a line
of preacher teachers. He was great. I enjoyed him.
I enjoyed him. All right. Other first-year
teachers you remember with pride and gratitude?
At A&M. For example, English. I'm trying to
remember. I think it was Mr. Key, Mr. P.C. Key, that
I had English. I never had my father. I remember
that for sure. But I had Mr. Key and Mr. Gunter and
Dr. Summey, who was head of the department. I
enjoyed them. I think it must have been Mr. Key. And
you know, it's changed now tremendously, but you
had to write some compositions and so forth. And I
was able to do pretty well under those
instructors. I'm just trying to... I had Mr.
Wolcott in Spanish. He was... Say, Jersey Joe?
J.J. Wolcott was in the Modern Language
Department, and his activity was also the singing
cadets. He was one of their main directors way back
there. And he taught...
Spanish, and I took two years in college, and that
second year when we got to having to read it, well, I
didn't do as well as I should have done. Let's see,
math, English, sciences? I
had general science. The only thing I know, I don't
remember those instructors. I just... um let's
see political science what we now call polit and
then it was government we didn't have it was uh
government all in the uh history department
department and uh of course the toughest teacher
in the history department was dr uh dodson he
taught British history. Oh, he was tough. He was
really tough. Did he have a nickname? James Lingle
Dodson is the only thing I remember. That was his
name. But then another famous history prof was
Screamin' Al Nelson. Was he there when you were a
student? He taught Latin American history. I did
not understand why that nickname was applied
until I had a class across the hall from him I
taught, and I heard him speak very loudly about his
feelings about Franklin Roosevelt, and other
communists, he said one day. And
so I understood, let's see, was Horace Bass? Oh,
Dr. Bass, I graded papers for Dr. Bass. Oh,
describe working for him. He was a fine gentleman.
And I recall I was introduced to him in one of,
between my freshman and sophomore year, or
sophomore and junior year, I was going to work at
the job that I had and described. No, I was going to
work for the registrar's office. That's what I was
going to do. And play softball. And I was rudely
detracted when I, in a softball game, I broke a
collarbone. And so then it was time enough for me to
go and register and take some courses. And I took
some history electives. And Dr. Bass taught those
that summer, and then later in my junior year, I
graded some of his papers. You know, everybody had
to take 306 Government, and it wasn't too
difficult for a liberal arts major to grade an ag or
engineering student's government paper. So I did
that for him, and he was fine. He was fine. Do you
remember what your compensation was as a grader
then? Oh, I don't. I couldn't have been very much.
Do you remember what the cost was for a year at A&M in
those days? I do recall when I believe I registered
the... Matriculation fee was $50 a semester, as I
recall. And that meant you could take 16 to 18 hours
of work. And then you lived at home, and so you had to
buy your books. Books, uniform. And it's amazing.
There would be no comparison to what you have for
education today. Let's see. When did you decide
that law was your calling? I had always wanted to
take law, and I would read. In
the 30s, there was a great deal written in the South
about anti-lynching laws. And, of course, that
was legislative in nature, and I just picked up on
that and I said, well, I want to be a legislator. Of
course, I never was, but I knew that if I had to take
pre-law before you could go to law school, so I took
liberal arts at A&M. Now, you were in the Corps, but
you lived at home. Describe the Corps routine for
you living at home. I participated in all of the
military activities. I'd drill with my unit. I
would report to the unit. a gun in the gun room that I
had to keep clean, and I participated in the extra
drills that the unit had, and completed all of
those activities, you see. And I maintained and
got a contract my junior year It
meant that you would take advanced ROTC, and I
received a contract and was on the course for
reserve commission upon graduation. As a
freshman, to what outfit were you assigned? F
Coastal Artillery. What was their nickname? Had
no nickname. Like they do, we had Coastal
Artillery Regiment. There was an Artillery
Regiment, Infantry Regiment, Composite
Regiment, all of those. We had no Air Force, as is
known today. It was much different. Were any of
those Army branches higher in student prestige or
lower? Which one was supposedly the choice? Well,
okay. In the Coast Artillery Regiment, you had
primarily engineers. In the infantry regiment,
you had agricultural students. In the Signal
Corps, you had electrical engineers, you see. And
that was more or less, and you could ask for a
specific, and I knew some, there was another local
man in the, in the Coastal Artillery that I knew,
C.A. Lewis, and I said, well, I'd like to go in
there. And so you could request a preference, and
they assigned me. Though I was really out of place
when it came to the... Though I had to take college
trigonometry to qualify, so I got through that,
but I couldn't compete with the engineers.
Describe, during that freshman year, describe
the routine of a typical day, weekday.
What time did things begin and what did you do?
Well, you had an 8 to 5, or 8 to 12, 1 to 5. The whistle
blew at 8 o'clock and it blew at 12, 1, and 5. And that
was the schedule. As a freshman, you were, and they
don't have that distinction now, we wore a little
white stripe around our left sleeve. And you
walked in the street. You didn't walk on the
sidewalk. You didn't have any other privileges.
But you went to class, see. And everybody was in
uniform. And you had drills. once a week for two
hours, and you would go to the armory and
participate, whatever was on the training
schedule. And 12
noon whistle blows, everything stops, takes up at
one o'clock, and terminates at five. Now did you
drill with your outfit before they went to supper?
If there were a scheduled drill, we'd have, we had
special occasions like that where you'd have
manual of arms drills and anything that was
called. If you wanted to kind of hide out and not be
found, where did you go? Everybody went to the
YMCA. reading room or to the library.
And I understand that
by and large no one hazed anybody or harassed them
in either of those places. No, that didn't occur.
That in fact you could even kind of find a quiet
place in the library and maybe take a brief nap. You
could. The seats were hard, though, the chairs.
Let's see. Did you eat many meals in the dining hall
those first two years? No, sir. No, sir, I didn't.
Did you ever take some buddies home for meals? Oh,
yeah. On occasions, they would come over, and
mostly they were study sessions.
They would come over, and we would... I remember,
well, they were all liberal arts, and you know, you
would be in the same section for any number of
different courses, you see. You'd have the same
students would be in that section. Now, were there
some courses that everybody kind of feared that
were kind of tough, tough, tough courses, and
everybody knew they were? Well, not for the
liberal arts student as much as for the
engineering students, you know. They had some
tough courses. They had calculus, you know, and
then they had some of the advanced engineering
courses. I just hear them talk about it. Now, what
math did you have to take? I went through
trigonometry. So kind of a repeat of what you'd had
in high school? In high school, it was. Who taught
that? Do you remember? I think it must have been Mr.
Lyle taught.
All right, so your routine then as a sophomore did
not change much. Did not change much. Then I went
into the dormitory in my junior year, and...
Then my senior year I was in the dorm, and I was
elected editor of the battalion my senior year,
and I had that particular duty to look after. Let's
hold that, because I want to be sure to talk about
that, but let's go back to the fall of 1939. the
Aggies had a fairly good football team.
Describe
some of those star players as human beings.
Well, the outstanding player was John Kimbrough,
who developed in his sophomore year about the
middle of the season He rose to the top. And so for
the 1939
year, he was the main show, and he was a terrific
football player.
On that same team were, well, Bama Smith, I saw him
the other day. He was a senior on that team, as I
recall. and he lives around here now, and did a
whole lot to help beat Texas when they played over
here that year, that fall. And then A&M later
played in the Sugar Bowl against Tulane, and it was
Cotton Price, the quarterback, and well, Pugh was
the next year, and Thomason, the blocking back,
Herbie Smith, Oh, there were quite a few of those
guys. They were quite a team. Was Kimbrough
respected as a fellow Aggie? Oh, yes. He was over in
the infantry regiment along with his brother
Jack. He played on that same team and all. And
then...
All of those men were, those players were in the
Corps, though they lived maybe at one time in a
special dorm. But then again, they went back to the
Corps. They dissolved that athletic dormitory
concept.
But they were all true A&M men and did well. And did
the athletes in that era, in your era, go to class
and graduate? Oh, yeah. Except there was one, you
know, there was a famous guard, Marshal Rob Nett.
A&M at that time had what they called a
what do they call, grade, not grade, well, you
could end up with minus grade points if you didn't
attend class. And he played for three years or four
years, but he ended up with minus grade points. But
that was just the nature of it. What about Coach
Norton? Describe him. Coach Norton
came way back in the middle 30s to lead A&M out of the
wilderness, so to speak. And he brought Dick Todd
with him, but that was before this big 39 team.
Todd had completed in 38, I believe, and didn't
play on the 39 team, but he was a great player. And
Uncle Bill James was his line coach. Doe Rollins
was an assistant coach. Manning Smith was the
backfield coach. And... They put it all together
in 39, and Coach Norton went to the Sugar Bowl, and
then the next year we were going to go to the Rose
Bowl, but we got sidetracked in Austin. I need that
to happen. Yeah. Well, many of them were inducted
into the service at the Cotton Bowl game in...
where
Kate Smith sang God Bless America. So a lot of those
guys were inducted right there at the half. All
right. As a freshman in 1939, that great team, do
you remember going on court trip? Court trip? I
remember going to the Sugar Bowl game. Oh, in 1940.
Please describe that trip. That was a great trip. I
was able to go and have a room with a friend of mine
named Joe Orr, whose dad was in the CE department.
And little Joe and I went down there, and I got him a
ticket, and he got me a place to stay, and we had a
great time. That was the greatest football game
I've ever seen. How did you all get there? We got
there on the train. That was the only way you could
go. And, well, you could drive and all, but most
people traveled by train. And, of course, life in
the French Quarter in celebration of New Year's is
quite an occasion, too. You know, it's
wall-to-wall on Canal Street, and that was quite
an experience, too. The football game was
probably the best one that I have ever seen.
Kimbrough and Price beat Kellogg and McCollum,
who were all Americans for Tulane, 14 to 13. And
that's where, that's made A&M football. And then
the next year, it was going to be even greater, but
naturally the war was developing and all, and a lot
of those guys, well, they still, they dropped out
and then actually, going back to Jimmy Cashin, he
was in the kiddie corps that Norton coached
probably in the years 44
and 45, maybe 43, I don't know. But Jimmy was in
school then and he played quarterback for for
Norton then. And, well, of course, when you think
about, there's only one thing to think about now is
when and how were you going. A lot of guys would
leave A&M at the end of the sophomore year and go
into the service. And one of the primary places
they would go would be to, it took two semesters of
college work to get into the flying program. And a
lot of guys would go then, and then if they didn't do
well in school, they would, you know, the other
opportunity was to go into the service. And we were
inducted, or my class was inducted, because we
went to school in the summer of 42, and graduated in
January of 43. We were wholesale, the whole class
took a special train from Bryan, our college
station, to Houston to be inducted in the
inducting schedule and then came back and
graduated and then were called to active duties as
enlisted personnel and then we all went to OCS and
then got our commissions. Let's back up to
December 7, 1941. Where were you and how did you
hear what had happened at Pearl Harbor? It was a
Sunday afternoon, and I remember it was a nice day
and all, and the word came out, okay, and of course,
that what had happened, you know, came by radio.
Everybody said, well, let's go. And some of them
sure left at that time. Do you remember anybody
having any reservation about what the United
States should do? Oh, there was no reservation
about it. And in the Cadet Corps, well, you know,
well, do I go now or do I wait? And most of them,
naturally, waited. But quite a few just left. Did
your parents have any words for you that you
remember right at that point? Nothing. They knew I
was part of it, and they couldn't control it. So you
were, this is your third year, the fall of your?
Fall of 41. So if you started 39, then the fall of 40?
42. I remember the class of 42. They went
wholesale. Then I was the next class. So you were
the class of 43. And when did y'all learn that the
four-year routine was going to be shortened? I
guess in the spring of 42.
And the college went on full time around the clock,
and they had no facilities to go to summer camp. So
that meant that the only thing you could do would be
to go to school, and then they didn't know what
would happen thereafter. That's what happened.
We went to school. All right, and you were living on
campus then as a junior. I was living in the
dormitory, and I was editor of the battalion for
the summer of 42 and the fall of 43. Describe
what... There was very little going on. Your
battalion... In the summer. Oh, the battalion?
Yes. It was interesting. We had...
three issues a week, Tuesday, Thursday,
Saturday. I believe, yeah, we had three issues a
week. We were under supervision of the Student
Activities Office, and it was pretty hard
sometimes to fill out with newsprint, you know.
Who was the key individual advisor? Or the key
person that you... Well, that's a good question
there. I think Mr. Angel was the assistant to the
president. Is this Charlie Angel? E.L. Angel. Oh.
And he had... the student activities supervisor
was Mr.
Boone,
I think. He had the actual hands-on. But Mr. Angel
was the administrative overseer, you might say.
And we had a lot of Well, there wasn't a whole lot of
activity because then you were locked in then. By
that time, you couldn't travel. There was not much
athletic activity in the summer, and I remember my
sports editor was Mike Hyken. And he made a
mountain out of a molehill by writing up every
softball game that occurred on the campus. That's
what he did to cover sports, because there wasn't
anything until the fall, and football came. We
still had a football season and all. But we went to
school, wore the uniform, and that was a little
unusual for that summer. How were you selected as
the editor? I was the student body. Okay. And was
there any compensation at all other than
satisfaction? $55 a month. I believe that's what
it was. And where was the battalion located,
quartered? In the basement of the administration
building. Because the press, the... N.M. Press
was in the north end of that basement building. And
just down the other, in the south hall, was the
student activities office. About where did the
battalion circulate? Primarily to the
dormitories and the faculty. and then some mail
outs to selected, I think each staff member had two
subscriptions that they could send. Did you ever
publish anything that was close to being
questionable by any reviewer? Oh yes, I remember
during my,
services, the editor. There was a
monthly magazine of feature stories, and it had a
different editor. John Holman was the managing
editor of that. And it had jokes in it. And we would
take selected jokes from other magazines, other
student publications across the country. And as I
recall, Mr. Angel reviewed one of those
magazines,
and he questioned me about the quality of the
jokes. Maybe he said they were too off color. And I
said, well, I'm going to go along with the managing
editor. He thinks they're all right. But the next
thing I knew, that that whole addition, before it
was bound and cut, was on the garbage.